{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww33400\viewh21000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs96 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 All the workshops are part of a series on software art. \
\
\'93Computer Lab: An Exploration into the Artistic Potential of Writing Software\'94\
\
CODING FUNDAMENTALS\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \'93Computer science is no more about computers than astronomy is about telescopes" - Dijkstra\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Teaching coding to complete newbies - how to approach the first ideas? How to hand people the tools to play with in a meaningful way? How to show them that they are expressing ideas? How to give them some opportunity for a spark, where they can start to wonder for themselves about the potential of those ideas?\
\
Need to over essential concepts of a programming language - variables, functions, data types, loops, conditional statements.\
\
Need to show how these are bigger concepts, and how to think about them, how to put them together, how to create new things ot of them.\
\
Talk about apis, the idea of \'93software development\'94. Expose only to the essential theory, point to concrete applications.\
\
Alan Kay, Seymour Papert\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
HTML/CSS\
\
Networked spaces and metamediums.\
\
McLuhan, Laurel Schwultz, Yifu Tuan\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
CREATIVE CODING\
\
We\'92re talking more about the artistic potential of writing software than about the field as it exists.\
\
2D, 3D and audio. The different processing units. The physical computer and its physical output. The way it works.\
\
Digital audio, digital graphics.\
\
Audio: Digital synthesis basics; how digital audio works compared to analog audio. Playing with audio streams and inputs.\
\
2D: Shape primitives, relevant math.\
\
3D: More about WebGL\
\
Zach Lieberman, Lillian Schwartz, Anni Albers, Max Mathews, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Kenichi Yoneda, [\'85 contemporary a/v software artists]\
\
\
}